chore: add english version of the demo (#34)
ibis-project/ibis-tutorial: demo/ibis-demo.en.qmd

> # Ibis Dempo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Ibis Demo
```

```{python}
#| echo: false
!curl -OLsS 'https://storage.googleapis.com/ibis-tutorial-data/imdb/2024-03-22/imdb_title_ratings.parquet'
!curl -OLsS 'https://storage.googleapis.com/ibis-tutorial-data/imdb/2024-03-22/imdb_title_basics.parquet'
!psql < create_imdb.sql
!duckdb < load_imdb.sql
```

First, we import Ibis:

```{python}
import ibis
from ibis import *
```

## Connect to DuckDB and create a table

```{python}
con = ibis.duckdb.connect()

ratings = con.read_parquet("imdb_title_ratings.parquet", table_name="imdb_title_ratings")
basics = con.read_parquet("imdb_title_basics.parquet", table_name="imdb_title_basics")
```

We can list the names of the tables

```{python}
con.list_tables()
```

> And render an abstract version of the expresion withe the column's names and types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And render an abstract version of the expression with the column's names and types:
```

```

## `con.sql()`

We also have the `.sql()` method, which allows you to write raw sql, because 
sometimes that's what you need to do:

```{python}
con.sql("""
    SELECT
    "tconst",
    CAST("averageRating" AS VARCHAR) AS "average_rating",
    CAST("numVotes" AS VARCHAR) AS "num_votes"
    FROM "imdb_title_ratings"
""")
```

```{python}
con.sql("""
    SELECT
    "tconst",
    CAST("averageRating" AS VARCHAR) AS "average_rating",
    CAST("numVotes" AS VARCHAR) AS "num_votes"
    FROM "imdb_title_ratings"
""").to_pandas()
```

```{python}
ibis.options.interactive = True
```

```{python}
con.sql("""
    SELECT
    "tconst",
    CAST("averageRating" AS VARCHAR) AS "average_rating",
    CAST("numVotes" AS VARCHAR) AS "num_votes"
    FROM "imdb_title_ratings"
""")
```

## Other operations

```{python}
basics.columns
```

To do a "GROUP BY" with `count()` we have the `value_counts()` method:

```{python}
basics.title_type.value_counts()
```

For our final analysis, we will clean a few things.

We will select only the titles with the "movie" type and discard the adult movies.

To do this, we will use a list of predicates

```{python}
basics = (
    basics

>     .filter([basics.title_type == "movie", basics.is_adult == 0])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .filter(basics.title_type == "movie", basics.is_adult == 0)
```

Not a necessary change, but `filter` accepts variable args now, so it doesn't need to be a list of predicates

    .select("tconst", "primary_title")
)
```

```{python}
basics
```

> Then, we join the `basics` table and the `ratings` table using the `tconst` column, 
> and we execute
> 
> ```{python}
> basics.join(ratings, "tconst").to_pandas(limit=10)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we join the `basics` table and the `ratings` table using the `tconst` column.

```{python}
basics.join(ratings, "tconst")
```

I think we're in interactive mode at this point, yeah?

```

We order by `average_rating`

```{python}
basics.join(ratings, "tconst").order_by(_.average_rating.desc())
```

> And filter the titles with more than one million votes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And keep only those titles with more than one million votes
```

```{python}
(
    basics.join(ratings, "tconst")
    .order_by(_.average_rating.desc())
    .filter(_.num_votes > 1e6)
)
```

> ## Table joins (`join`)

Reviewer: This seems... out of place?

Author: yes, but it was on the original demo so I'll leave it for now, we can revisit the demo content in a follow up

Finally, here is the full expression to compute the ten best movies.

```{python}
topfilms = (
    basics.join(ratings, "tconst")
    .order_by(_.average_rating.desc())
    .filter(_.num_votes > 1e6)
)
```

```{python}
ibis.options.interactive = False
```

```{python}
topfilms
```

```{python}
topfilms.to_pandas(limit=10)
```

## Execute the same expression in Postgres!

### Connect to Postgres with Ibis

We already have the data in Postgres

```{python}
pgcon = ibis.postgres.connect()
```

### Check that the tables exist

```{python}
pgcon.list_tables()
```

> Execute the same expresion in Postgres:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the same expression in Postgres:
```

```{python}
pgcon.to_pandas(topfilms)
```

> ¡That's it, that's Ibis!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it, that's Ibis!
```

> Ibis has 20+ backends, like Snowflake, DuckDB (what we saw here), and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ibis has 20+ backends, like Snowflake, DuckDB (as seen above), and more.
```
